We go way back to one of the first videos where we talked about primitive types.
I just gave you a brief overview of them.
We've now covered no string bullion.
We haven't really talked about no or undefined at all.
We've seen undefined once or twice.
Now we're just gonna quickly run through them.
They are very simple as far as primitive types go but they can be confusing for beginners as far as
what what they each do and how they're different.
Both of them represent the idea of nothingness or something not being there or at the lack of a value.
But there is a distinction between them.
So both are primitives and we can just type them in the browser and the console null undefined.
We could make a variable and set it explicitly to them if we wanted to.
But let's talk about the main difference.
No.
Is a value it's a primitive type that is the intentional absence of any value and you assign it yourself.
So you could make a variable and set it to No.
So here's an example of that we might have a variable called logged in user and at the beginning of
our application there is no logged in user.
So you will explicitly set it to No.
You make it nothing.
You're telling javascript.
There is a value here it's just the value of nothing.
And then if someone logs in you could set it to Alan Rickman and then if Alan Rickman logs out recipes
I think he did.
I think he is.
Yes he is.
Rest in Peace Alan.
We could then reset it to normal afterwards so it is the explicit value of nothingness of emptiness.
It's no undefined is different undefined is a value that represents a variable that does not have a
value assigned to it.
So it's kind of semantically annoying to explain but if you think about when we've seen undefined so
far.
If we tried to access a string like L'Oréal square brackets of four we get undefined.
There is nothing defined there.
We don't usually set something to be undefined ourself and technically we can contact you equals undefined.
If we look at you it's undefined.
Normally though undefined is a value we get back from javascript like if we initialize a variable let's
color but we don't give it a value so we declare it.
Sorry we don't initialize it.
If we look at color it exists but the value is undefined.
We never defined a value for it.
Compare that with something like current user.
We could explicitly set that to nothing and then change it later on if needed.
So both of them represent kind of similar concepts.
So we manually or explicitly assign the value of know to a variable.
Again it's the intentional absence of any value when you want something to be empty undefined is not
necessarily saying something is intentionally empty.
It means that there is no defined value and it's nuanced but that is different.
Now if you're confused about this you don't feel super great about it.
You will see undefined all the time.
We've already seen it before as I mentioned trying to access characters that don't exist or indices
that don't exist in a string.
We'll see it when we get to arrays and objects.
It's very common to see.
No it's something you yourself used.
You set something to know and it's not totally uncommon but you won't deal with it as often as you'll
see undefined.
So don't panic about those but those are the last two primitive types we had on our list.
We've now covered numbers a lot about strings a little about billions and a little about normal and
undefined.
Next we're going to boolean land.
We have a lot to talk about as far as adding logic to our applications.